Project 2: Report
Crystal Diaz

Intro:
The purpose of this web app is to assist users in finding alternative fueling stations in their respective areas. 
I was looking through API's and I found one on data.gov that interested me enough to make me want to research what alternatiev fuel is and who needs it.
I was surprised to find ELEC (electric fuel for electric cars), was pretty scarce in my area (Miami, FL). 
With the rise of electirc vehicles in a place like Miami, it would be useful for users to have info on where to immediately fuel up.

Usability Goals:
I wanted to build something useful, but also seamless. Search queries need to be straight forward and functional for users to navigate through. 
It was important to have the search input screen on its own and have the user navigate to another page after searching.
Furthermore, it was important for users to be able to store their search results somehow, so the email/ text function provided users with that ability.
I chose to give users the option to see their results in a map view or a table, different people prefer different visualization of information.
Below either option would be a list of their search results.

Design Process & Widgets:
Originally, when building the app, I had all my components on one page. I felt it was too busy and there needed to be a flow implemented. 
I decided to separate sections into Search, Results, and Send Results to simplify the UI for the user.
The first thing I sketched was the search bar, and it was on its own, so I am satisfied that my vision in the beginning made it to the end.
The rest of the elements I added were to meet the demand of the assignment, but I also was mindful in picking elements that made sense to the purpose of the app.
st.button was essential to the navigation of my app. Figuring out how to go forward and back to the start was tricky given streamlits limitations but it was not impossible.
I still feel there is a bit of lag when clicking a button, and I would love to know how to fix it.
st.map and st.chart worked together with st.checkbox, giving users the power to manipulate how they view their search results. 
I had a difficult time adding a chart element. I picked a barchart because it made sense for the information users were viewing, but I feel it would be more useful if the bar chart could 
save previous search results to show users over time what fuel types are available over others.
Currently it only displays the prevalence of the fuel type available given their query.

API integration
Overall, I did not struggle implementing the API until it was time to make it work.
Search queries entered by the user were given using city, state, zip or address, and the API only accepted latitude and longitute.
So the challenge was to turn the users search location into respective lat and lon for the API to function.

HCI Principles
This app shows users st. error, warning and success messages which guide the user through each step and confirms the action they are performing.
This is essential for HCI because people have the expectation that something needs to happen when a button is clicked or something is typed, or a button is checked or unchecked.
Allowing users to navigate forward and backward through the app as well as navigate to the beginning allows users to have control within the app. 
Streamlit provides consistency with their UI which aids in not confusing users and allowing users to clearly identify a button, a check or a space to enter text. 

Conclusion:
Given more time and perhaps more knowledge, I would improve the chart element I picked, I would sort out the bugginess when clicking a button and perhaps I would find a solution to not
have users scroll all the way down their search results to click next. Upon reflection, if a user chooses to display 50 search results, they might be scrolling for a while.
Overall I am satisfied with meeting the requirements of the assignment and learning about building useful web apps. 
